districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:lgdCode: C:NHM_BirthControl->lgdCode
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_BirthControlEvent_Vasectomy
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_BirthControlEvent_Tubectomy
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_BirthControlEvent_Sterilization
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_BirthControlEvent_Vasectomy_AsFractionOf_Count_BirthControlEvent_Sterlization
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_Death_BirthControlSterilization
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_BirthControlEvent_IUCDInsertion
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_BirthControlEvent_IUCDInsertion_AsFractionOf_Count_BirthControlEvent
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_ContraceptiveDistribution_OralPill
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
districts/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->Count_ContraceptiveDistribution_Condom
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:lgdCode: C:NHM_ChildHealth->lgdCode
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_BirthEvent_LiveBirth
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_BirthEvent_StillBirth
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_BirthEvent_LiveBirth_AsFractionOf_Count_ChildDeliveryEvent
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_BCG
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_OPV
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_DPTDose1
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_DPTDose2
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_DPTDose3
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_ChildVaccinationEvent_MMR
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineSideEffect_Adverse_Deaths
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineSideEffect_Adverse_Others
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
districts/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Death_Infant
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:lgdCode: C:NHM_GeneralStats->lgdCode
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_InPatient
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_OutPatient
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_SurgicalProcedure_Major
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_SurgicalProcedure_Minor
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_InPatient_Deceased_AsFractionOf_Count_InPatient
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
districts/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_OutPatient_Ayush
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:lgdCode: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->lgdCode
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_PregnantWomen_RegisteredForAntenatalCare
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_PregnantWomen_RegisteredForAntenatalCareWithinFirstTrimester
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_InAnInstitution
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_InPublicInstitution
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_AtHome
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_AtHome_WithStandByAssist
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
districts/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_DeliveryEvent_Safe_AsFractionOf_Count_DeliveryEvent
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:isoCode: C:NHM_BirthControl->isoCode
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_BirthControlEvent_Vasectomy
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_BirthControlEvent_Tubectomy
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_BirthControlEvent_Sterilization
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_BirthControlEvent_Vasectomy_AsFractionOf_Count_BirthControlEvent_Sterlization
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_Death_BirthControlSterilization
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_BirthControlEvent_IUCDInsertion
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_BirthControlEvent_IUCDInsertion_AsFractionOf_Count_BirthControlEvent
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_ContraceptiveDistribution_OralPill
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_BirthControl->E0
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_BirthControl->Date
states/nhm_birth_control/NHM_BirthControl.tmcf:value: C:NHM_BirthControl->indianNHM/Count_ContraceptiveDistribution_Condom
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:isoCode: C:NHM_ChildHealth->isoCode
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_BirthEvent_LiveBirth
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_BirthEvent_StillBirth
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_BirthEvent_LiveBirth_AsFractionOf_Count_ChildDeliveryEvent
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_BCG
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_OPV
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_DPTDose1
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_DPTDose2
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineAdministered_DPTDose3
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_ChildVaccinationEvent_MMR
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineSideEffect_Adverse_Deaths
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Infant_VaccineSideEffect_Adverse_Others
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Date
states/nhm_child_health/NHM_ChildHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_ChildHealth->Count_Death_Infant
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:isoCode: C:NHM_GeneralStats->isoCode
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_InPatient
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_OutPatient
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_SurgicalProcedure_Major
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_SurgicalProcedure_Minor
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_InPatient_Deceased_AsFractionOf_Count_InPatient
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Date
states/nhm_general_stats/NHM_GeneralStats.tmcf:value: C:NHM_GeneralStats->Count_OutPatient_Ayush
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:isoCode: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->isoCode
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_PregnancyEvent
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_PregnantWomen_RegisteredForAntenatalCare
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_PregnantWomen_RegisteredForAntenatalCareWithinFirstTrimester
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_InAnInstitution
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_InPublicInstitution
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_AtHome
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_ChildDeliveryEvent_AtHome_WithStandByAssist
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationAbout: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->E0
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:observationDate: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Date
states/nhm_maternal_health/NHM_MaternalHealth.tmcf:value: C:NHM_MaternalHealth->Count_DeliveryEvent_Safe_AsFractionOf_Count_DeliveryEvent
