# Importing County-Level RFF Weather Variability Data

## Initial variables
This directory imports RFF's county-level weather variability data

The script generates:
- WeatherVariability_Counties.csv
- WeatherVariability_Counties.tmcf

and it relies on these statistic variables:
- dcs:StandardDeviation_DailyPrecipitation
- dcs:Skewness_DailyPrecipitation
- dcs:Kurtosis_DailyPrecipitation
- dcs:StandardDeviation_DailyMinTemperature
- dcs:Skewness_DailyMinTemperature
- dcs:Kurtosis_DailyMinTemperature
- dcs:StandardDeviation_DailyMaxTemperature
- dcs:Skewness_DailyMaxTemperature
- dcs:Kurtosis_DailyMaxTemperature
- dcs:HeavyPrecipitationIndex
- dcs:ConsecutiveDryDays

### Generating Artifacts:

To generate `WeatherVariability_Counties.tmcf` and `WeatherVariability_Counties.csv`, run:

```bash
python preprocess_counties.py
```

## Additional variables

- `Intensity_HeatWaveEvent`: Following the US Environmental Protection Agency,
we define a heat wave as a period of two or more consecutive days when the
daily minimum temperature in a particular location exceeds the 85th percentile
of historical July and August temperatures (1981-2000) for that location. This
intensity metric describes how hot the temperature is during heat waves. It is
defined as the difference in temperature (measured in degrees Celsius) between
the city-specific threshold for heat waves and the average of the daily minimum
temperature during the heat wave.

- `NumberOfDays_HeatWaveEvent`: Following the US Environmental Protection
Agency, we define a heat wave as a period of two or more consecutive days when
the daily minimum temperature in a particular location exceeds the 85th
percentile of historical July and August temperatures (1981-2000) for that
location. This length metric describes the duration of the average heat wave,
in days, within a particular location and time period. 

- `Count_HeatWaveEvent`: Following the US Environmental Protection Agency, we
define a heat wave as a period of two or more consecutive days when the daily
minimum temperature in a particular location exceeds the 85th percentile of
historical July and August temperatures (1981-2000) for that location. This
count metric describes the number of heat waves per year in a given location.

- `StandardizedPrecipitationIndex_Atmosphere`: The Standardized Precipitation
Index (SPI) is a probability index that gives a representation of abnormal
wetness and dryness. It is defined as the number of standard deviations that
observed cumulative precipitation deviates from the climatological average
within a given location.

- `InterannualRange_Monthly_Precipitation`: The range in monthly precipitation
observed over one year in a given location. This range is calculated as the
difference between the maximum monthly value and the minimum monthly value.

- `InterannualRange_Monthly_MaxTemperature`: The range in monthly maximum
temperatures observed over one year in a given location. This range is
calculated as the difference between the maximum monthly value and the minimum
monthly value.

- `InterannualRange_Monthly_MinTemperature`: The range in monthly minimum
temperatures observed over one year in a given location. This range is
calculated as the difference between the maximum monthly value and the minimum
monthly value.

### Generating artifacts

The cleaned CSV was generated by Hannah Druckenmiller (hdruckenmiller@rff.org)
using [R code here](R/).

## Data Source

The weather variability metrics described above use source data from PRISM
Climate Group, Oregon State University, http://prism.oregonstate.edu

Terms of Use:
* When using these data, please clearly and prominently state the PRISM Climate
  Group and their URL.
* According to PRISM’s terms of use, these data may be freely reproduced and
  distributed for non-commercial purposes only.
