# Energy consumption and generation data - India

Reliable, robust and validated data are critical for informed planning, policy development and investment decision. The energy projections are key as we need to seize today’s opportunities to build a sustainable tomorrow. India has five energy ministries and multiple energy-consuming sectoral ministries leading the energy discourse in the country. India can no longer afford to operate in a siloed energy data paradigm.

This directory contains data imports for energy-related datasets for Indian states. The datasets mostly have annual periodicity and the data is available at state-level. All annual datasets are available for the period of 2006-2020. The monthly data is available for the period of 2019-2021.

Datasets are classified into five categories:
- [Coal](./IndiaEnergy_Coal/)
- [Electricity](./IndiaEnergy_Electricity/)
- [Gas](./IndiaEnergy_Gas/)
- [Oil](./IndiaEnergy_Oil/)
- [Renewables](./IndiaEnergy_Renewables/)

All these categories cover generation, stock and consumption data for the corresponding energy type. For more information on the datasets and graphical overview, visit [NITI Aayog's Energy Dashboard for India](https://niti.gov.in/edm/). All datasets can be downloaded from [NITI Aayog's EDM portal](https://edm.niti.gov.in/?dataKey=)

## Top level files

[base.py](./base.py/) file contains the base class. `india_edm.base.EnergyIndiaBase` is the base class for this import. This class contains methods to parse the data files, build the final CSV and create MCF/TMCF files.

[data/](./data/) folder contains datasets downloaded from [NITI Aayog's Energy Dashboard for India](https://niti.gov.in/edm/). Each energy/fuel category has separate data folders.

[util/](./util/) folder contains json mappings for the consuming sector, energy/fuel types and StatisticalVariable configs. Most of the terms in the dataset (like consuming sector or coal type or measurement unit) does not match with the Data Commons schema. Hence, these json files are create to help in mapping the terms in datasets to their corresponding dcids.

### JSON Mappings in util/

The mappings coded in json files under [util/](./util/) folder are described below:
- _coalTypes.json_ : key value pairs denoting coal types in dataset (key) and the corresponding dcid from [EnergySourceEnum](https://datacommons.org/browser/EnergySourceEnum) (value).
- _consumingSectorTypes.json_ - key value pairs denoting consuming sector of energy in dataset (key) and the corresponding dcid from [EnergyConsumptionSectorEnum](https://datacommons.org/browser/EnergyConsumptionSectorEnum) (value).
- _energySourceTypes.json_ - key value pairs denoting energy source terms in dataset (key) and corresponding dcid from [EnergySourceEnum](https://datacommons.org/browser/EnergySourceEnum) (value)
- _oilAndGasTypes.json_ - key value pairs denoting oil and gas types in dataset (key) and corresponding dcid from [EnergySourceEnum](https://datacommons.org/browser/EnergySourceEnum) (value).
- _statVars.json_ - json file containing property values needed to construct MCF node for each Statistical Variable. The key definitions are:- `property`: measuredProperty, `popType`: populationType, `consumingSector`: if consuming sector info exists for StatVar, `unit`: measurement unit for StatVar, `scale`: multiplication scale taken from column names of [raw data](./data/).

## Script usage

Run the `preprocess` module inside the `IndiaEnergy_*` directories to create the MCF, TMCF and preprocessed CSV files of the corresponding dataset.

For example, preprocessed files for Electricity data can be generated by running the following command from [`scripts/`](../) directory:
```
python -m india_edm.India_Electricity.preprocess
```