## Rainfall Dataset - India WRIS

Water Resources Information System (WRIS): Rainfall dataset provides information on actual, normal and deviation of rainfall data at the district level.

The rainfall parameters represented in this dataset are:

- Normal rainfall (Average rainfall for the given location)
- Actual rainfall (Actual rainfall measured in that location)
- Deviation (Percentage change between actual and normal rainfall measurements)

Node properties can be found in the [mcf](./India_WRIS_Rainfall.mcf) and [tmcf](./India_WRIS_Rainfall.tmcf) files which are generated by the script.

### Raw data download

Source link: [https://indiawris.gov.in/wris/#/DataDownload](https://indiawris.gov.in/wris/#/DataDownload)

### Dataset info

- Spatial resolution - District Level
- Observation Period - Monthly
- Data availability - 2011 to 2021

Note: Since the number of StatVars are very few in this dataset and no preprocessing is required, preprocessing and test scripts are omitted and the mcf/tmcf files are generated manually. The steps involved in preprocessing data are described in the next section.

### Preprocessing steps

1. Download the raw data from the source link given above. The raw data will have State Name, District Name, and month columns. Each month column will have three sub-columns: Actual (mm), Normal (mm), Deviation (mm).
2. Create a 'ObsMonth' column which has the date value of each row in 'YYYY-MM' format.
3. Map the district names to LGD codes using `IndiaDistrictsMapper` class from [scripts/india/geo/districts/](../../india/geo/districts.py).